# Nym validator

The Nym validator is a blockchain application. It maintains a token called `nym`, which can be used for staking on mixnodes in the [Nym network](https://nymtech.net/).

## Building 

The validator has been built using [Cosmos SDK](https://cosmos.network) and [Tendermint](https://tendermint.com), generated by [Starport](https://github.com/tendermint/starport).

To set it up, build the validator node and cli:

```
git clone https://github.com/nymtech/nym-validator/
cd nym-validator
git checkout v0.9.0-pre4
make install
```

These commands will produce two binaries (`nymd` and `nymcli`) in the `build` directory. Copy both of them up to your server.

## Single node setup

Next, generate the initial chain setup:

```
./nymd init your-node-name --chain-id nym-testnet
./nymcli keys add validator-key
./nymcli keys show validator-key
./nymd add-genesis-account $(./nymcli keys show validator-key -a) 1000000000nym,1000000000stake
./nymd gentx --name validator-key --amount 10000000stake
./nymd  collect-gentxs
```

Lastly, start the chain and REST API:

```
./nymd start
./nymcli rest-server --chain-id qa-chain
```

At this point, you'll be running a single-node validator with a REST API on http://localhost:8081/swagger/index.html, a different (Cosmos) REST API on http://localhost:1317. These two will be merged in the next release. First we want to get the validators and mixnet running, then we'll join them together once all the node types are working :).

## Testnet setup

Joining the testnet starts out similarly to doing the single-node setup:

```
./nymd init your-node-name --chain-id nym-testnet
./nymcli keys add validator-key
./nymcli keys show validator-key
```

Copy and overwrite the `genesis.json` from this repository into place at `~/.nymd/config/genesis.json`. 

Then add the testnet seeds into the `persistent_peers` settings in `~/.nymd/config/config.toml`

```
persistent_peers = "b5eb919e8770dfb6c01e6e3832b7f37d829cc823@testnet-validator1.nymtech.net:26656,4f8b7653057c866c477fd5d4ff7983b8e14bf9dc@testnet-validator2.nymtech.net:26656"
```

Reset the chain to be sure you start fresh:

```
./nymd unsafe-reset-all
```

Start the node:

```
./nymd start
```

Make sure that you have opened the port 26656 on your firewall. If you're using `ufw`, the command is:

```
ufw allow 26656/tcp
```

At this point, your node should start syncing. Wait until the blockchain is fully synced before creating your validator. 

You can check your status using `./nymcli status`. Check to find the latest block height and whether it's currently catching up blocks. If you see:

```
"catching_up": false
```

Then your chain has fully synced.

Ask for nym tokens in the nymtech.friends#validators channel in Keybase. Creating a validator requires that you have enough coins to stake on the validator (minimum is currently 1 million nyms). Note: we will be resetting the testnet chain before the next release, the tokens on it have no value.

Once you've received some (fake) testnet nyms, you can create your validator and join the active set. 

You'll need your validator node pubkey. You can get it by running the `nymd tendermint show-validator` command. The validator pubkey always starts with `nymvalconspub`. Here's an example

```
nym@localhost:~$ ./nymd tendermint show-validator
nymvalconspub1zcjduepql2m3ufcqxf53vyklqwt53ujdz5tcrgnxs8dekuz9s02muc0z68ssvhcllg
```


Next, spend the coins in your account to create a validator. Enter your validator pubkey starting with `nymvalconspub` into the `--pubkey` field, and pick a moniker (self-assigned name) for your validator, like this:

```
nymcli tx staking create-validator --amount=1000001nym --pubkey=nymvalconspub1zcjduepql2m3ufcqxf53vyklqwt53ujdz5tcrgnxs8dekuz9s02muc0z68ssvhcllg  --moniker=YourName --chain-id=nym-testnet --commission-rate="0.10"  --commission-max-rate="0.20"   --commission-max-change-rate="0.01"    --min-self-delegation="1"  --from=validator-key
```

You can check if it worked using: 

```
./nymcli query staking validators
```

This shows the tokens and delegator shares. You should see multiple other validators there. If not, please ask for help in nymtech.friends#validators in KeyBase.

If you want to run your validator automatically at system boot time, you can [adapt the systemd unit file](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-systemd-units-and-unit-files) in `scripts/nym-validator.service` to your needs.


## Developing

If you are a Nym developer, you can run a development setup as follows.

First, start up all the Starport components (including the user interface) like so:


```
starport serve
```

`serve` command installs dependencies, initializes and runs the application.

## Configure

Initialization parameters of your app are stored in `config.yml`.

### `accounts`

A list of user accounts created during genesis of your application.

| Key   | Required | Type            | Description                                       |
| ----- | -------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| name  | Y        | String          | Local name of the key pair                        |
| coins | Y        | List of Strings | Initial coins with denominations (e.g. "100coin") |

## Learn more

- [Starport](https://github.com/tendermint/starport)
- [Cosmos SDK documentation](https://docs.cosmos.network)
- [Cosmos Tutorials](https://tutorials.cosmos.network)
- [Channel on Discord](https://discord.gg/W8trcGV)


